"I'm curious, teacher, why do people
often avoid offering certain types of
flowers and fruits as offerings? For example, people often avoid offering
lilies because they fear separation. But, dear fellow
practitioners, does this flower resemble a lily? If it does, then it's
called a lily, not a lily.
People call it a lily because it resembles a lily. We
offer flowers because they
have a fragrance; we offer any flower that has a fragrance. The
name 'lily' is because it resembles a
lily, not because it causes
separation. What leads
to
separation? It's the karmic consequence of
divisive words. Therefore, we shouldn't offer or
plant any tree that
originates from divisive words, because
its fruit is separation. Divisive words are the
flower, and its fruit is the karmic consequence of separation, not the lily itself causing separation. The flower of separation, the
fruit of separation. We also avoid
offering orchids to Buddha because the word '
orchid' is close in meaning to 'licentious and
unrestrained' (or 'flirtatious'). I
don't know what to do with them."  Why are
they called orchids? They
're just flowers, not flowers. Flowers don't have any
romantic or unrestrained qualities. Romantic and
unrestrained qualities belong to the mind. If the mind is
unrestrained and doesn't live
according to moral standards, it will have
consequences, possibly suffering in the present moment.
For example, a monk who is unrestrained and
unrestrained
will violate the precepts and commit evil deeds. For instance, we observe the
five precepts, but if we are
unrestrained and unrestrained, like the precept against stealing, and
forget it,
go to a friend's house, leave
a gold ring there, and the friend goes
into the kitchen, pours a pot of water, offers it to us, and puts it in their
pocket. The friend's house has a
camera. The consequences are severe,
like checking in on
Facebook and suffering, right? It's
not the orchid's fault. Therefore, it's
superstitious to avoid offering
frangipani flowers. According to some legend, it's related to
love between men and women, so it's not used.
Respectfully,
esteemed frangipani flowers are used to adorn the statue of Prince Siddhartha
on his birthday.  Yen, who
specializes in using frangipani flowers, uses them because they have
a moderate white color and a pleasant fragrance.
Therefore, frangipani flowers are often used to decorate the necks of
statues, and offerings can be made there as well.
Yen frequently
uses frangipani flowers for offerings. Any
flower with a fragrant scent is suitable for offerings. But
now, people are just
attaching stories to the frangipani tree, and
whoever attaches the story is the one who does it.
The frangipani tree is just a frangipani tree, it's not something else.
People say that frangipani trees have
ghosts and banyan trees have
spirits. Actually, any tree, if it's a
big tree, will cause problems. It
's not just any tree;
trees are believed to be inhabited by spirits and demons. If you cut down
a tree without any
spirits or demons, you won't have any problems,
right? But any tree that does
will cause problems. It's not like
orchids are just like that.  Just
think about its name.
Now, the name of the plant is like this: Which
name of a person becomes a Party Secretary? Which name
becomes a President? Which name should be avoided for thieves? Which
name
should be avoided for children who are sick or stupid? Stupid is stupid, pain
is pain, right? So the name of the flower
has no spiritual effect whatsoever.
Even though jasmine is a
symbol of purity, in
folklore, jasmine is considered an indecent flower
and shouldn't be used in Buddhist
or ancestral ceremonies. Jasmine only blooms at
night; it suits the weather.
It blooms at night, but it has a fragrance and
brings comfort.
Jasmine is used to
extract pure jasmine essential oil, which
helps people with
muscle inflammation and stiffness by applying it and warming it
with the high-quality essential oil (not the fake one).
Jasmine essential oil
has that effect. What else? I know.
I've tested it. But this one hasn't been
tested yet. If anyone...  It's just a trial run
to see how it works because it's just jasmine
essential oil. It's
used to infuse the body, so it has a
fragrant scent, but it's not harmful,
right? If anyone is sick, try using it. If you
believe it, then we'll see if
it has any effect on
your muscles. I know about muscle atrophy, myositis, and other
muscle diseases,
but I haven't tested it yet.
This hasn't been tested yet, I'm just saying
this for now. I'll only make a
statement when I test it. I don't know
where to get this jasmine essential oil from,
because store-bought jasmine essential oil probably is
n't pure. So
jasmine flowers can still be used for incense
offerings as long as they have a fragrance.
Avoid fruits with sharp thorns like
durian, jackfruit, and pineapple. Because according to
feng shui, fruits with sharp thorns
can affect the family
's peace and harmony when offered as incense.
Now, let's go robbing and offering
all kinds of fruits!  It's just a small matter,
he wasn't arrested,
did you all agree? Regarding the principle of
karma, if you want blessings, you must cultivate virtue.
Good virtue leads to good blessings. If virtue isn't
good, then blessings won't be good. That's all. And when you
make offerings to the Three Jewels, that's also a
place to cultivate virtue for the
world, bringing the Buddha's teachings to help
sentient beings cultivate virtue. Cultivating virtue leads
to blessings, so virtue is the root of blessings. For
thousands of
generations, all human beings have
acknowledged this. Only
superstitious and deluded people suffer like this. In
reality, when they go to make offerings, they believe what people say,
but at home they still teach their children, "If you're
so ill-mannered, your children will
learn from you, and your family will suffer because of your behavior."
But then they go to the shaman
and say, "It's because of the offerings." They
believe everything, right? But at
home they teach their children, "If you're so ill-mannered
to me, your children will be ill-mannered to you later." They
still teach their children
that way, but when they go to see a
fortune teller or shaman, the fortune teller says...  Believing in flowers, fruits,
house orientation, and everything else is
paradoxical when one refuses to
think about it. The Buddha, the wise one,
said, "If you hear something, think carefully before you
practice it." Here, I don't think about
anything at home; I teach my children, and
if I have virtue, I will have blessings, right?
Children are just obedient and
diligent in their studies, that's all. But now,
instead of teaching their children morality, they just
offer fruit as offerings, their houses facing
east or west. If their children misbehave, they
don't seek ways to
create more blessings for themselves, such as associating
with virtuous people. If they cultivate filial piety,
they won't suffer the karmic consequences of having
unfilial children. Their children will have the opportunity to
meet kind and virtuous people, they
will listen and be filial. That's the point; instead of
cultivating blessings, they
only think about superstitious things and get
scared by people. And some even say you
shouldn't offer durian fruit because it
will bring sorrow and misfortune. Fruits that grow
close to the ground, near unclean places, like the sim fruit, are believed.  Wild fruits,
even strawberries and raspberries, bring them
here. Yen and Huong spend all day on them because
they are quite expensive and very delicious,
right? So, that's
not really true. In reality, people only
take the
fruit that grows in places like behind the
pigsty where the pigs are kept.
If it grew there, we wouldn't
take it either. That's our intention. As for the sim fruit, we still bring it back to offer to the monks.
Actually, that sim fruit is from the
old days. It's a
precious kind of fruit that can only be eaten in season.
In the old days, we didn't have money to buy fruit,
so whatever fruit can sustain human life,
we can offer.
But what tree doesn't need fertilizer? If it doesn't need fertilizer, how will
it grow? We
eat the fruit, not the fertilizer. And
yet you say that the more
fertilizer, the better the soil, and
the tastier the fruit. Now you say that fertilizer is not necessary. If
you plant a piece of land for ten
years without
any fertilizer, will you be able to eat the fruit? The fruit will still be...  It's
spoiled. How can we eat it?
We have to fertilize now. Yen asks the esteemed fellow
practitioners: did we fertilize in the old days to get delicious fruit, or did we
fertilize with chemical fertilizers? The
fruit still tastes the same as before, but the fruit tastes the same, fragrant, delicious, and sour, with a
fragrant aroma.
If someone grows guava properly,
without those chemicals, it's very fragrant.
Although it's a guava, it's shriveled, but
finding a guava with the same
aroma as before is almost
impossible, only those who grow it themselves
can get that aroma. The guava bought
at the market has no guava aroma at all; it's just a small fruit. I can't
distinguish it from a guava,
it's not like
the guava from before. Especially, even though
garlic isn't a fruit, it absolutely should
n't be placed on the altar because, according to
folk beliefs, garlic is incompatible with the gods. Surely,
the village that grows garlic doesn't have any
gods. Respectfully, esteemed fellow practitioners, going to
India...  Oh my god, people eat everything with garlic,
rarely anything without garlic.
One driver, a man,
got out of his car and started cooking. I
saw him with five or six big cloves of garlic like
this, adding a little bit to his cooking. He cooked curry,
ate it with bread, and cooked
so much garlic, peeling it like this.
One day I saw him cooking, and there were so many
cloves, maybe more than ten. It's a curse to
eat garlic. Licking your
lips with... it's all
wrong views. The devil harms you because
your heart is unwholesome, you've done evil deeds in
many lifetimes, and now you're being harassed by the devil. If you lack compassion, the
devil will
bother you. If you are unfilial, unrighteous, don't know how
to love, don't know how to forgive, don't know how to
pity sentient beings, then the devil will
harass you because your heart is in harmony
with the devil's heart.
If you're not like that, then no devil will
come and bother you; they'll accept anything you smell. It's
not like they're devils.  It's not afraid of anything. It's
just like
this: If we have examples of
people experiencing sleep paralysis or other
similar sleep disturbances, and they bring
in a knife or a clove of garlic, at first, when they didn't
have those things, the person might find it
strange and not react. But try it a
week later, and the same thing happens again,
nothing is resolved. It's just that the person finds
it strange, feels something different, so they don't react.
But then they gradually approach, and they see that
nothing happens, and they react the same way. It's not
about bringing the knife or the clove of garlic; it's
because your mind wants to resist it.
When your mind starts
resisting it, your merit
accumulates. Because in many lifetimes,
you've done good deeds without
dedicating the merit, so when you have that
desire, that merit flows back to you, dear fellow
practitioners. Because if you don't know about
Buddhism, you don't dedicate
any merit at all; you just help friends and do good deeds. That's all. Then, when the time is right,
you'll receive that merit. But
right now, what you desire is that moment of merit.
If you wish for blessings, they will come back to you. But if
you desire too much merit, your
wishes won't come true. People who
wish for things they have in abundance
will receive them. So when
you are afflicted by such karma, you can carry a clove of
garlic or a knife, or even something unusual, just something
strange.
If you have the intention to wish for it, that negative energy
won't be affected. Whether you are
affected a lot or a little depends on
your own merit and that person's merit. The knife, garlic,
or anything else, or a
bell, or whatever it is, how far away it is from you
depends on your own merit. That's all. So,
if you
are harmed by an evil person, it's best to
accumulate merit and dedicate it to them so that it will be
resolved. Otherwise, it won't be
resolved. Besides that, there are also some
fruits that people really like to offer
on the altar, for example, the
custard apple (called "mãng cầu" in the South), the coconut (
called "vừa," the papaya, and the
mango (called "xài
thơm").
[Applause]
This is the name, and the offering
is for the fragrant incense within it. It
radiates... Yen told the audience, "Back when I was
little, in the village, there weren't any
games. We'd just line up like
this, in a circle like this, and
then each person would make a wish,
a wish or something. Some people wished for
this to eat, some wished for that, and then it was Yen's
turn.
Because if a poor family wished for a lump of gold, a
lump of gold would make their family less
poor. Then the boy next to
Yen in the village, who'd been there since he was little, said, 'I wish for a lump of gold. Since I'm going to wish anyway, I might as well
wish for a whole jar of gold!'
[Laughter]
So, here we're praying for just enough to use. So,
we'll just pray for more, if we do
n't use it all, we'll give it away, right? So, what's the
point? If it's just
a name, we just write it down.
Writing it down means we're praying for more than we can use.
So, we just keep praying, okay? So,
the heartfelt wish is..."  Human beings
have a kind and benevolent heart, but to achieve
that desire, we must have a
method. That method is abandoning
evil and practicing good. What is good and what is evil? We must
learn from Buddhism; it will be clearer and
easier for us to practice. Teacher Yen, please
continue reading. From a feng shui perspective, the
colors of the five-item offering tray, such as white, green, red, and
yellow, represent a closed cycle of mutual generation,
symbolizing good fortune like Metal, Water,
Wood, Fire, and Earth. In terms of filial piety, the five-item offering
tray at the ancestral altar symbolizes the four
parents protecting the family, with the homeowner
in the center creating a warm and harmonious family reunion.
Regarding the names of fruits, they can
express the homeowner's hidden wishes for happiness.
For example, "Praying for
enough to use and enjoying happiness" or "Praying for
enough to use and enjoy happiness." And adding
figs to the offering is also true. Eating figs
also helps prevent cancer; it's
truly wonderful. So let's eat figs every
day, abandoning everything else.
Every day, buy
pickled figs and braised figs like at the Golden Pagoda. Eat figs,
eat
figs, dear fellow practitioners!  There are
symbols, for example, in
tourism, we write
these concepts, following a
heartfelt desire, and it becomes an
attractive way to guide tourists and
develop the tourism industry, which is a
good thing. Vietnamese people
often have this kind of desire, so they
often light incense
to express their wishes. That's all.
It's a good intention, but if
it's superstition, it causes suffering. The Buddha
taught this: nothing causes faster loss of merit than
wrong views. If someone falls into
wrong views, the good Dharma that has arisen will be destroyed. The
evil Dharma that hasn't arisen yet will arise. The good Dharma that hasn't arisen will
not arise. The evil Dharma that hasn't arisen yet will arise.
That's not as harmful as wrong views. Therefore, if
we have right views,
we will have blessings. Because we have
right views, we protect ourselves,
abandon evil and do good, and we will
generate merit. Those with wrong views
only do evil and don't know how to do good. That is...
I don't understand cause and effect, so I just do whatever comes my way,
and
evil will inevitably arise, right? Then
Yen only mentioned the five-fruit offering like this. If someone who
doesn't know this before reads this, they might say, "Oh, right.
A few years ago, my business was
unlucky because of me, not because I did
n't focus on morality, but because I kept blaming everything else.
I've gone
astray. Just ask,
how many people received food and peace, and there was
no war or chaos? I wonder
if the offerings from Uncle Ho were just enough to live on, or if there was
too much? I guess there was
too much. People have to know how to cultivate
good deeds to receive blessings. So,
what we learn from
Buddhist teachings brings us
happiness. Those who don't understand Buddhist teachings are
confused; if business fails, they blame
everything on this and that, not
knowing how to cultivate their roots of merit, just going around
making random offerings. It's very
[musical]
miserable.